Hello everyone and welcome to the word ladder problem lecture this lecture we're going to learn about
what the word ladder problem is we're going to see how we can solve that problem with a graph.
We're going to see an implementation of a solution in Python and then we're going to begin thinking
about graph traversal.
A quick note on the imitation of a solution in Python we're not actually going to live code anything
out because the main purpose of the lecture and the word ladder problem in general is just to get us
thinking about how we can actually traverse through a graph and what kind of problems it can apply graphs
to.
So what is the word ladder problem.
So consider the following puzzle.
You have to transform the word fool.
F O L into the word sage s h e.
And in the word ladder puzzle you must make a change occur gradually by only changing one letter at
a time at each step.
You must transform one word into another word and you're not allowed to transform a word into a non-word
.
So to give you an example an idea fool here which will transform into a pool by only changing one letter
Then we can transform that into pole and then pull again pale sale and then Saige.
So on each step we only change one letter and we slowly transform fool into the word sage.
So that's the basics of the word letter problem and one of those that we can actually solve this problem
using graph algorithm.
What we can do is represent the relationships between the words as a graph and then use the graph algorithm
known as breath first search which is what we want to begin thinking about.
To find an efficient path from the starting word the ending word.
So we wanted to figure out how to turn a large collection of words into a graph and what we would like
is to have an edge from one word to another.
If two words are only different by a single other letter then any path from one word to another is a
solution to the word letter puzzle.
So let me show you what I mean by that.
Imagine you have here this graph and here we have fool.
And here we have Saige.
And you'll notice the actual edges connect one word to another.
Only after removed by one letter in what you should also notice is that this is an unweighted edge on
all of them and it's also an undirected graph.
And remember it directly digraphs are where edges only point in one direction.
In this case all the edges point into that direction.
Because you can jump from one word to another in both directions.
OK so the edges are unweighted in it's undirected graph.
So how could you actually build out this graph.
There are several approaches.
One approach you could do is take the assumption that you already have a list of words that are all
the same length.
So imagine you had all these words in the list and they're all the same length for letters as a starting
point.
You can create a vertex in the graph for every word in the list to figure out how to connect the words
.
You could compare each word in the list with every other and then when you compare what you're looking
for see how the letters are different to two words in question are different Barling one letter.
Then you just create an edge between them in the graph.
So that thinking might work for a very small set of words.
Will be fine however if you have a list of thousands of words roughly speaking you're gonna have order
and squared algorithm because you have to do a comparison from this word to every other word.
It's it's almost like a nested for loop.
So you can actually do a lot better than that.
And then what you can do is suppose that you have a huge number of buckets each of them of a four letter
word on the outside except that one of the letters in the label has been replaced by an underscore.
So for example as you can see in this figure we might have a bucket labeled POPC underscore and as we
process each word in our list.
What we do is compare the word with each bucket using the underscore as a wildcard.
So then Bouffes words like Pope and pops would each match GOP underscore and every time you find the
matching bucket you put the word in that bucket.
And once we have all the words in the appropriate buckets we know that all the words in the bucket must
be connected.
So that's a way better and more efficient way of actually creating the graph.
We just saw versus the end squared algorithm.
We were thinking about comparing each word to every other single word.
This bucket solution with the blank is a lot better.
In Python you can actually implement that scheme by just using a dictionary.
The labels on the buckets we've just described are the keys to a dictionary.
And then the value stored for that key is a list of words.
Once we have the dictionary built we can create the graph.
We start a graph by creating a vertex for each word in the graph and then we create edges between all
the vertices we find for the words found under the same key.
That dictionary is essentially that bucket.
So let's go ahead and see the implementation in Python.
Again we all live.
Code anything out.
We just want to begin to think about how we can build graphs to solve problems.
So let's go in and jump to the code.
So here we are now at the word ladder example problem notebook.
Again here I'm just actually on get not be a viewer because we're not going to code anything out.
Just going to go ahead and explore the code a bit so we can get a better understanding.
So in order to construct the graph I've just copied and pasted.
And you can import this if you want.
The vertex class that we created earlier as well as the graph class and this is what the build graph
essentially code or function would look like.
In case you want to do this so again what you're doing here is the labels on those buckets we've just
described earlier are the keys in our dictionary and the value stored for that key is a list of words
.
Also you have the dictionary built.
We can create the graph and then you start our graph by creating a vertex for each ward Magrath.
So then we create edges between all the vertices we find for words fun in the same key.
So in this case you've opened the giant list of words you set for line and the Word file.
Go ahead and print the line and print the word.
If you're curious you can just hash tag those out.
If there's too many words grab the word and then say for an arranged length of word essentially just
insert that underscore there and then you're setting those as buckets which are essentially your keys
.
Then you're saying for the bucket in that key and then for the word in that bucket again for word 2
in that bucket.
They don't equal each other.
Add an edge between word one and word two.
All right.
So again you can check this out.
I encourage you to go through it but really this is just to get us to think about how we can use a graph
to solve real problems and how we can traverse that graph.
So the next lecture we're going to dive much deeper into how we can actually traverse a graph and search
for something in a graph.
OK thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture